Because grid allows cells to overlap
each other, there's more that you
can do here besides just what I
just showed you with figure and
figure caption overlapping cells and
putting in a little bit of transparency.
And the 11 bonus code pen which
is available from the website.
Here I have an actual animation
that's going on here and
we have in this case two images of cats
that are fading one into the other and
I have coded this with CSS Grid and
CSS animation.
So I'll just talk you through a little bit
about how this is set up so you can see
how this is done I'm not saying it's a
perfect solution or a beautiful solution.
Clearly there, we could add some UI here
with something like JavaScript to give
user more control over what's going on.
But this is just to generate some interest
in overlapping grid cells and to get you
thinking about other ways that you might
be able to use them in your own work.
So here we have, in our HTML,
we have two figures and
I've given one of them a class of cat1.
And they're basically set up the way that
you've seen figures set up throughout
this course.
We have an image and we have a figure
caption just as you've seen before.
So what we're doing here
In our HTML is here
at cat one that is going
to be our wrapper for
this particular animation so
this is the figure itself.
We're adding the animation so on the
wrapper we have a layout that's going on.
That's right here display
grid with a gap of 1% and
then I have said for
my figures I overlap them I both figures.
Take the same style here,
where I've said the grid row and
the grid column are exactly the same.
It's a one cell grid, one column one row,
and these are going to
overlap each other and I set a width
on it because this is an image.
Notice too I've added a property
here called justifyself center.
And that is a grid property that
allows this fixed width piece
of content to center itself in
the middle of that particular self.
Then on cat one, I can just fill in
the kind of animation that I want.
So what I'm really doing
here Is I'm fading in and
out the cat that's on top cat
one that fades in and out.
And the other cat is up there
on the screen the whole time.
But because the first cat is fading in and
out,
it looks like they are alternating
even though they're not.
If you're not familiar with CSS animation.
This isn't a CSS animation course, but
I'll just briefly sort of tell you what
these properties are and what they do.
First of all for we don't want to give
this an animation a name I've called
it fade and the reason you give it a name
is because you're going to attach it to
what's down here this
keyframes part of this.
And this is the instructions for
what it should be doing at each point
along the path in the animation.
Now explain that in just a moment.
So I've given it a one
second delay to start.
The reason I do that is because we want
to give these images a chance to load in
before the animation starts.
We can say how long we want
the animation to last.
In this case, I've said five seconds.
And then we have some things
about the animation Phil mode,
said both Is the iteration count infinite.
In other words never stop you could put
in some number of iterations here if you
want, and
the animation direction is alternate.
So we're going to run the animation this
way and then we're gonna run it back.
We're gonna run it this way and
we're going to run it back.
If you put it all in one direction so it
runs start to finish start to finish start
to finish that can get a little bit choppy
so here it's running back and forth.
So that's sort of the broad
characteristics of the CSS animation up
front and then here in the keyframes
we say exactly what we want to do and
I've set up 0% 25% 75% and 100%.
That is of the time, that's what those
percents are referring to 100% of the time
would be, in this case, five seconds,
the animation duration that I set here.
So 25% of that of five seconds
would be at 1.25 seconds
in this specific case,
we're going to do this thing.
So here the keyframes
are set up such that and
the first sort of 25% of
the animation the first 1.5 second,
1.25 seconds will have it displaying
at the same opacity basically
no animation is occurring.
Then between 25 and 75% of the time so
1.25 to 3.75 seconds
we'll transition from an opacity of one
to an opacity of zero that's the fade.
That's where the fade completely happens
and then we'll keep that to 100%.
So that's what's happening here,
just two grid cells we've placed them
on top of each other than we
animate one to fade in and out.
So that's one idea that
you might take away, and
thinking about overlapping grid cells and
what you can do with them in your designs.